Dec 3 2023:
Year End and Community Power

It is that time of year again to reflect and look towards the future. Where is the game at!!!

Unsuprisingly there hasn't been much progress, just slow incremental changes and the usual rendering features. Bit of a guilty pleasure toiling away at random bits of effects... feels weird even calling it a guilty pleasure, this whole thing is for my own enjoyement after all! The guilty feeling of course comes from not having more done or playable. I think an easy target to set at this point is to have something end to end done, a verticle slice. Going from the already built out intro, through the school, to two sets of fights would be enough and the tools are there to do it. The big missing piece of course though is ... the gameplay!! Not much direction there and tbh not too sure how to "decide" on any bit of it. It's been too many years of ideas and my interests in general have changed greatly. RTS -> Tactics -> Action -> FG kind of muddied my brain for what a fun simple game should look like.

If I were to ask what it would take to become more serious about the project, im afraid I won't like the the answer. I think it involes shifting to a community of developers to push me to do more, act more and think more about indie developement. I say this because of how much of an effect the vancouver fg scene has had on my desire to play games. Two years ago I couldn't imagine spending that many hours playing anything, now its just after thought, of course I'll come through to xyz event! etc etc. This effect I see happen with out of town friend groups too, playing games like DnD now, squash or w/e. As a goal for the new year I should look to harness this community power for my other interests as well. 

I say afraid cause "community" doesn't match the vision I've had for this indie stuff originaly. I really value independance, seeking a community for developement really doesn't match how I view myself but you know... w/e i guess, tis a new year.

<b>So if youre in Vancouver and know of any indie meetups and for w/e reason found your way here, please reach out on Twitter :) Regardless, i'll likely try to find you soon...</b>

Looking forward to 2024, with how my job is going and how I'm feeling. I'm expecting big changes again in the future!
