May 18 2026
Get in the Car

With my recent move, I've been in more and more scenarios where my motorcycle has just been insufficient for getting around. Needing to carry so many larger items or just needing to run errands in poorer weather conditions made it so I've been relying more and more on car having friends. I think up until this year I've essentially always lived in a "downtown" of some kind. The kinda of areas where having a car ment paying hundreds a month for parking and driving on difficult and narrow roads. Motorcycling around was just optimal and significantly cheaper. Living somewhere just a bit closer to suburbia now made it make sense for me to start using car shares, so these last few weeks I have. Having only driven a bike since highschool, spending a total of maybe 4 hours behind a wheel, adjusting to managing a car has been a really unique experience.. I wanted to write about it... 

Seriously its so alarming how much more comfortable a car is then a bike, both mentally and physically. I'm sure that sounds quite obvious, but the level of comfort is so high, I almost dont understand how their arent <i>more</i> car accidents. On a bike, my mental state is very combatitive, constantly looking at the cars around me, focusing on balance and posture. These things are just not present in the car, instead i am just in what feels like an air bubble. My senses are extremely dulled to. I cannot feel the air preventing me from really understanding my actual speed or hear the noises of traffic, lowering my spatial awarness. The seat being more comfortable then my desk chair even really relaxes me adding to the dullness. Everything about a moving motorcycle focuses you in on driving, everything in a car seems to make me feel like im at home. It's like a new room.

The mechanical differences between the two are also pretty jarring. Turning in a car exerts a ton of forces on your body, the shift in weight is super noticeable since you arent moving yourself. For bikes you are leaning into turns. In general, a bike feels like an extension of my body. My hands, feet and core are all used individually to move the vehicle. In a car, its mostly just my hand and one foot, I am not as attached and the movement of the car feels seperate from me. The difference is there in how I need to position the vehicle also. On a bike, I can simply stay in the middle of the lane, turn based on my actual position. The car forces me to view myself as seperate from the vehicle in a ton of spots, even a simpler action like making a turn needs me to be slightly more forward then where I'd actually turn if I were walking. Turning in a car in general is so much more sharper then on a bike, hitting a 90 degree turn can just happen on a dime while in a car. On a bike, the arcs are way wider and yet feel more natural? Again, it just feels like the bike is a part of me, while I am piloting a machine while in car.

I still love my bike, but I honestly don't think I'll be running too many more errands with it, just saving it for longer trips or nice summer days. Maybe I'll feel differently in a few months time.

Now I just need to shop and pick something out to own...
